# EPUB Utilities

A collection of highly-customized (read: not generalized) utilties for dealing with EPUB3 generation.

## Utilities

Included utilities are:

* **transformer.php**: This script reads a directory of a Calibre-genenerated EPUB file (unzipped, of course) and converts it to a format to match my own EPUB structure. Things like `<p>Stats</p>` get turned into `<h3 class="stats-header">Stats</h3>` and the stats themselves go from `<p>25 Minutes</p>` to `<li class="stats">`. Additionally, a new style sheet is moved into place and image assets are given new names.
* **packager.php**: This script combines an OPF template with the output files generated by `transformer.php` and creates a new `package.opf` file. It builds out the `<manifest>` and `<spine>` sections, which could be difficult to manage manaully with hundreds of recipes.
* **renamer.php**: This script renames the list of Calibre-generated chapter files so that they sort numerically. That is, files like 1, 2, 34, and 101 will be renamed to 0001, 0002, 0034, 0101 respectively.
* **inserter.php**: This script will insert an empty file of the given name into the source directory and renumber all files at or above that number. The file's name must be of the format 9999_your-file-name.xhtml. The number 9999 indicates the insertion point. If there's a file already with that number, its value is bumped up along with every other high-numbered file.

## Usage

The scripts require SOURCE and/or TARGET environment variables to be defined.

```bash
SOURCE=../mbk-cfo/source/OEBPS make rename
SOURCE=../mbk-cfo/source/OEBPS TARGET=../mbk-cfo/target/OEBPS make install
SOURCE=../mbk-cfo/source/OEBPS TARGET=../mbk-cfo/target/OEBPS make transform 
TARGET=../mbk-cfo/target/OEBPS make toc
TARGET=../mbk-cfo/target/OEBPS make package
```

A quick full rebuild, after an initial build has been done:

```bash
SOURCE=../mbk-cfo/source/OEBPS TARGET=../mbk-cfo/target/OEBPS make install transform toc package
```
