<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Cooking for One: A My Bizzy Kitchen Cookbook</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
  </head>
<body>

<div class="chapter-heading">
  
  
  <h1 class="chapter-title">Cooking for One: A My Bizzy Kitchen Cookbook</h1>
  
  
</div>

<div class="chapter-content">
<p class="no-indent">Copyright &#xa9; 2022 by Biz Velatini. All Rights Reserved</p>
<p>We at My Bizzy Kitchen hope you enjoy these inspiring and fun recipes. My Bizzy Kitchen is not responsible for the outcome of any recipe you try. You may not achieve desired results due to variations in elements such as ingredients, cooking temperatures, typos, errors, omissions, or individual cooking ability. You should always use your best judgment when cooking with raw ingredients such as eggs, chicken, or seafood and seek expert advice before beginning if you are unsure. You should always take care when using sharp knives or other cooking implements. To ensure the safety of yourself and others, be aware of heated cooking surfaces while cooking. Please review all ingredients prior to trying a recipe in order to be fully aware of the presence of substances which might cause an adverse reaction in some consumers. We do not provide any assurances nor accept any responsibility or liability with regard to recipe quality, nutritional value, or safety. Unless otherwise stated, the recipes featured are not endorsed by any other companies/organization or their affiliates.</p>
<p>No part of this book may be reproduced or used in any manner without written permission of the copyright owner except for the use of quotations in a book review. These recipes are intended for personal use only. In this cookbook, we may legally utilize trademarks owned by third parties. These trademarks are the respective property of their owners and we make no claim of ownership.</p>
<p>Cover Photography by Robbye Jepsen Photography</p>
<p>Back Cover and Interior Photography by Biz Velatini</p>
<p>Vic&#x2019;s Lemon Curd Photography by @vicsbowls</p>
<p>Published by Lockshire Press</p>
<p>First Kindle Edition, July 2022</p>

</div>

</body>
</html>