<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Skinny Pizza Dough</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
  </head>
<body>

<div class="chapter-heading">
  
  
  <h1 class="chapter-title">Skinny Pizza Dough</h1>
  
  
</div>

<div class="chapter-content">
<p class="no-indent">A few recipes in <i>Cooking for One</i> use my popular and versatile Skinny Pizza Dough recipe, reproduced here for convenience. You can find out more about this adaptable dough on my web site, my YouTube channel, and &#x2013; of course! &#x2013; my <i>Skinny Pizza Dough</i> cookbook. If you don&#x2019;t already have a copy, then you&#x2019;re missing out on dozens of recipes based off this one ingredient. From pizzas to breads, from main dishes and even desserts, you&#x2019;re all but certain to discover something new and delicious.</p>
<p>Stats</p>
<p>20 Minutes</p>
<p>20 Ounces of dough</p>
<h2 id="heading-1">Original Skinny Pizza Dough</h2>
<p class="no-indent">Ingredients</p>
<p>2 cups self-rising flour</p>
<p>1 teaspoon yeast</p>
<p>1 teaspoon salt</p>
<p>1/2 cup nonfat Greek yogurt</p>
<p>1/2 to 3/4 cups water</p>
<p>Method</p>
<p>Add flour, yeast, and salt to a large bowl. Mix with a fork.</p>
<p>Add the yogurt and mix until combined.</p>
<p>Add just under 1/2 cup water to start, increasing only to get the dough together. You may find you&#x2019;ll need more (or less) water, so adjust as needed.</p>
<p>Once combined, store it in the microwave, covered, and let rise 12 hours. The dough is best after day 2 or 3 and lasts in the fridge for up to 7 days.</p>
<h2 id="heading-2">Gluten Free Skinny Pizza Dough</h2>
<p class="no-indent">Need a version without flour? No worries, I&#x2019;ve got you covered! I like using Bob&#x2019;s Red Mill Gluten Free 1-to-1 Baking Flour, but feel free to substitute your own.</p>
<p>Ingredients</p>
<p>2-1/4 cups Bob&#x2019;s Red Mill 1-to-1 baking flour or GF baking flour</p>
<p>1-1/2 teaspoons yeast</p>
<p>1 teaspoon salt</p>
<p>1/4 cup cornmeal</p>
<p>1 teaspoon sugar</p>
<p>1/2 to 3/4 cups water</p>
<p>1 tablespoon butter, softened</p>
<p>Method</p>
<p>In a large bowl, mix 1/2 cup water, yeast, and sugar together. Stir and set aside for 10 minutes.</p>
<p>Mix in the flour, cornmeal, and salt. Mix well. Add only enough water (tablespoon at a time) until the dough comes together.</p>
<p>Cover and let rise one hour.</p>
<p>Roll out dough. Spread the butter on the dough and knead for five minutes. Separate dough into two crusts and refrigerate until ready to use.</p>

</div>

</body>
</html>