<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
  </head>
<body>

<div class="chapter-heading">
  
  
  <h1 class="chapter-title">Introduction</h1>
  
  
</div>

<div class="chapter-content">
<p class="no-indent">Do you want healthy, delicious, quick meals but don&#x2019;t have a lot of time? With these healthy recipes you can make a good meal in less than 30 minutes! I&#x2019;m going to show you how you can cook up quick healthy dinners that will leave your stomach full and your taste buds happy.</p>
<p>If this sounds like something you&#x2019;d like, then keep reading! In this cookbook I&#x2019;ll give you healthy, easy to follow recipes which will allow anyone from beginners to pros the ability to whip up tasty home cooked meals in no time at all.</p>
<p>All the recipes in this cookbook make a full meal, intended to be eaten by one person. If you would like to cook a bigger batch for later or cook it twice and have two meals from one recipe, then cook times will need to be adjusted accordingly. The cookbook is also designed so that there aren&#x2019;t any leftovers.</p>
<p>Living alone does not mean settling for less or eating food that isn&#x2019;t appetizing or nutritious. You don&#x2019;t have to eat the same food every night, and you certainly don&#x2019;t need take out all the time. There are so many recipes out there for one person, but these are tailored specifically to your needs! Most recipes only take 20 minutes, and many of them can also be easily frozen to save time later!</p>
<p>If you find any of the recipes in this cookbook to be delicious, healthy, and quick, let everyone know by sharing the recipe on Instagram and tag me @mybizzykitchen so I can share!</p>
<h3 id="heading-1">Photo Use</h3>
<p class="no-indent">The pictures are not to be used for commercial purposes. Please contact me if you would like to use them for any reason other than what is required by the &#x201c;fair use&#x201d; clause of copyright law.</p>
<h3 id="heading-2">Acknowledgements</h3>
<p class="no-indent">Huge thanks to my brother Charlie, who was instrumental in the design of this cookbook. The past few months have been a whirlwind, and I couldn&#x2019;t have don&#x2019;t it without your help! I appreciate all the insights you shared with me and taking my calls when I had questions or concerns. Best brother evah!</p>
<p>Thank you to my daughter Hannah, for being the best helper and cheerleader for me &#x2013; I love you to the moon and back!</p>
<p>And kudos to my proofreader, Amie McDaniel, for being able to get everything done in a timely manner. It was great working alongside you. Thank you for all your help!</p>
<p>If anyone&#x2019;s looking for a proofreader, contact Amie at <a href="mailto:amiemeditsbooks@gmail.com"><span class="underline">amiemeditsbooks@gmail.com</span></a>.</p>
<h3 id="heading-3">Recipe Data</h3>
<p class="no-indent">I used <a href="https://verywellfit.com"><span class="underline">verywellfit.com</span></a> to calculate the nutritional information based on the exact ingredients I was using. I am not a licensed dietician or nutrition expert, so please use this cookbook as a guide to reach your health goals.</p>
<h3 id="heading-4">QR CODES</h3>
<p class="no-indent">For each recipe, you&#x2019;ll see a QR code. If you have the WW app and are logged in, just point your phone at the code and the recipe will open. From there you can track the points for that recipe. The best part? If and when the WW program changes, the recipe&#x2019;s points can be adjusted automatically. You&#x2019;ll never be out of date!</p>

</div>

</body>
</html>