<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>The Story</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css" />
  </head>
<body>

<div class="chapter-heading">
  
  
  <h1 class="chapter-title">The Story</h1>
  
  
</div>

<div class="chapter-content">
<p class="no-indent">I&#x2019;ve always loved being in the kitchen. However, when my daughter Hannah was little, we typically only ate about five dishes: pizza, hot dogs, chicken fingers, pasta, and tacos!</p>
<p>So when I met and married Jeff, my late husband, I realized I needed to step up my game in the kitchen. I was 32 and ready to move beyond those five staples.</p>
<p>How did I learn how to cook? By cooking! It&#x2019;s really the only way that you can hone your skill and gain instincts in the kitchen.</p>
<p>I was notorious for following a recipe to a T, never tasting anything along the way, and putting the dishes on the table expecting them to be perfect.</p>
<p>However, after the first bite I would say &#x201c;Dang, I wish I would have added crushed red pepper or more salt.&#x201d; It was then that I learned that you simply must taste every element of the dish before it hits the dinner table.</p>
<p>I also learned to love more vegetables than I ever have in my life. I believe that vegetables I ate growing up were either canned or overcooked and I relied on cucumbers and carrots as my go to vegetables. So if you are like me, I&#x2019;d suggest trying some vegetables again that you&#x2019;ve given the stink eye too. I didn&#x2019;t fall in love with mushrooms until I was 45!</p>
<p>Please enjoy this labor of love. I continually had you all in mind as I was creating these dishes and I can&#x2019;t wait to hear what you think.</p>
<p>While 90% of these recipes are made for one, I did add a few recipes that made sense to make more than one serving, such as my buffalo chicken chili &#x2013; I could eat that twice in a week and freeze the leftovers to reheat on nights when I am short on time.</p>
<p>Any questions? You can always email me at mybizzykitchen@gmail.com.</p>

</div>

</body>
</html>